I am Simón Bolívar, born in 1783 in
Caracas, New Granada, current day Venezuela.
I am Venezuelan military leader who was
instrumental in the revolutions against
the Spanish empire. I became involved in the
resistance movement and played a key role in
the Spanish American fight for independence.
Being an inspirational leader and contributor
to the freedom of Latin American citizens,
the "Republic of Bolivia" was named after me.
I was born into a prosperous family who took their
money from rich gold and copper mines they owned
in Venezuela. I moved to Spain to complete
my education at age 16. I found the Spanish
government in the Americas very tyrannical. When
Napoleon invaded Spain in 1808, I was in Caracas
and joined the resistance movement to liberate
Venezuela and most of South American regions.
In 1813 we formed the Venezuelan Second Republic
after years of fighting and I was called
the Liberator by the people. However,
civil war soon erupted in the republic,
forcing me to flee to Jamaica where I wrote my
famous "Letter from Jamaica". In it I detailed
my vision of a South American republic with
a parliamentary setup modeled after England.
Gaining support from Haiti, I returned to my
home continent and became involved in several
military battles, eventually able to claim several
territories. 1821 saw the creation of a federation
included much of what is now Venezuela, Colombia,
Panama, and Ecuador, under my leadership.
Later I become the leader of Peru in 1824,
followed by the creation of Bolivia in 1825.
I had succeeded in uniting much of South America
in a federation free from Spanish control,
but the government was fragile.
I faced opposition from internal
factions and escaped an assassination attempt.
I suffered from tuberculosis and died in 1830
I planted the freedom seed in south America and
wished see civilization bloom on the wealthy land.
My legacy can be seen in the multitude
of statues and plaza squares bearing my
likeness all over the world. I hope my heritage
lives to this day among people minds and hearts.